Q.In an application, one task  has to be done for every 15 minutes. How can you do it?
Ans: As with the present java SE 8 release with it's excellent date time API with java.time these kind of calculation can be done more easily instead of using java.util.Calendar and java.util.Date.
•	Use date time class's i.e. LocalDateTime of this new API
•	Use ZonedDateTime class to handle Time Zone specific calculation including Daylight Saving issues. You will find tutorial and example here.
Q.What are types of Beans in EJB?
         Session Bean---Stateless, Statefull
          Entity Bean
          MessageDriven Bean
Q.What is Junit?
ans:
A tool for unit testing
Q.what is maven ?what is artifact in maven and use of artifact?Ans:An artifact is a file, usually a JAR, that gets deployed to a Maven repository.A Maven build produces one or more artifacts, such as a compiled JAR and a "sources" JAR.Each artifact has a group ID (usually a reversed domain name, like com.example.foo), an artifact ID (just a name), and a version string. The three togetheruniquely identify the artifact.A project's dependencies are specified as artifacts.Q.what is the use of pmd.Ans:PMD (software) PMD is an open source static Java source code analyzer that reports on issue found within application code. PMD includes built-in rule setsand supports the ability to write custom rules. PMD does not report compilation errors, as it only can process well-formed source files
Q.how to resolve conflict files while commiting in svn ? how many types of conflicts you are facing ?Once in a while, you will get a conflict when you update/merge your files from the repository or when you switch your working copy to a different URL. There are two kinds of conflicts:
file conflictsA file conflict occurs if two (or more) developers have changed the same few lines of a file.
tree conflictsA tree conflict occurs when a developer moved/renamed/deleted a file or folder, which another developer either also has moved/renamed/deleted or just modified.
Right click on the Solutions folder, click TortoiseSVN -> Show Log.Right click the revision you want to revert, select "Revert Changes from this revision"Right click the conflicted folders, select "Resolved".Commit your 
7.what is Mockito and you seen any disadvantages in Mockito ? is there any other frameworks like Mockito ?Ans:Don't Replace Asserts with VerifyNo More All or Nothing TestingFailure: Expected X received XDon't Stop Handrolling Mocks
JustMock or TypeMock

